Create a math game for young kids in WPF.  This game should be themed with material a small child would enjoy.  For instance, if you had a son/daughter that likes Star Wars, use pictures and sounds from the Star Wars movies.  Or you could do a sports themed game so that when they get an answer correct, they see and hear a crowd cheering.  The Game will consist of 3 Windows, which will be the main menu window, the game window, and the final score window.

Main Menu Window

            When the game first starts the main menu window will be displayed.  This window will allow the user to enter their information, choose the game type, and begin playing the game.  The user’s information will consist of their name and age.  The game type options the user may choose from are Add, Subtract, Multiply, and Divide.  These options must be displayed using radio buttons.  The window will also have a “Begin Game” button.  When the user clicks this button, the entered information must be validated.  If the name is blank, or the age is not a valid number between 3 and 10, or a game type has not been selected, then a red error label describing what the user needs to fix will be displayed.  For instance, if the user didn’t enter a name, then a label with red text will appear telling the user “Please enter your name to continue”.

Game Window

            If the user’s entered information is valid, then the main menu window is hidden and the game window displayed.  As the game is being played the user should have the option to cancel the current game and return to the main menu, or close the window to return.  The game will consist of ten randomly generated questions.  The random numbers should be kept between 1 and 10 so that the game is easy to play for a young child.  So, based on the game type, each question must be randomly generated.  For instance, if the game is addition, then two random numbers will need to be generated (between 1 and 10) for each question and displayed to the user. 

The game window will have a “Start” button that will begin the game.  When the “Start” button is clicked a timer, which goes off every second, will begin showing elapsed seconds.  This timer is used to time how long it takes the player to answer all ten questions.  When the user answers the final question, this timer is stopped, and that is the game time.  As the user is playing the game, the game timer will be displayed to the user so they know how many seconds has elapsed.

When the game starts, the first randomly generated question will appear.  So, the first question may be “1 + 2 = ___”.  At this point the program waits for the user to enter their answer, then click a “Submit” button.  The user may also press the “Enter” key to submit their answer.  When the user submits their answer, they are told, via a label, whether or not their answer was correct.  At this point, the current question and answer are cleared away and the next question is displayed.  This will continue until all ten questions have been guessed (right or wrong).  Do not force the user to get answers correct before moving to the next question.

After all ten questions have been answered the final score window should be automatically displayed, and the game window hidden. 

Final Score Window

When the final score window is displayed, the following information should be displayed: user’s name, age, number of correct answers, number of incorrect answers, and time took to complete the game.  When the user closes the final score window, they will be taken back to the main menu window where they can choose to play again.

 

 

General Guidelines

            Be careful when choosing questions for the user.  Remember that this is for small children.  You want the questions to have random numbers (between 1 and 10), but you also want them to make sense.  For instance, if the subtraction game is being played, the answer should not be negative.  If the game being played is division, then the answer should be a whole number (10 / 2 = __).  For division you are welcome to use numbers a little larger than 10, because the game ends up with a lot of division questions where the answer is one.  So, for division you can pick two numbers between 1 and 10, multiply them, use that number for the first number.  Here is an example.  Let’s say the program randomly selects the numbers 3 and 5.  First multiply them together, which gives you 15.  Now use 15 as the first number, 3 as the second number, and 5 as the answer.

            The purpose of this game is to become more familiar with the use of classes.  You will need to create classes of at least types “User” and “Game”.  Make sure to keep all your business logic out of the UI.  This means no logic behind the UI for generating or answering questions.

The “User” class will hold all of the user’s information (Name and age).  The “Game” class will be used to create the game questions.  The type of game will be passed into this class so that the class can generate the appropriate questions.  Also, the answer to each question will be passed into this class and the class will determine if the answer was correct or not.

All methods need to have exception handling.  Top level methods need to handle the exception and alert the user to the exception, and lower level called methods need to raise the exception up to calling methods.  See example “Chapter 13 Exceptions”.